README.md, before:

# Git Commands Cheatsheet

## 1. Navigate to your Git project folder

use `cd` to move between folders, for example 

```
cd workspce
cd bdl02 haidar_git_cheatsheet
```

## 2. check the status of the project

I can use these commands **anytime** to inspect my project.

- `git status` to see changes added to the file, and if some files are ready to be committed. 
It gives me an overview of the project at that specific moment of time.

- `git log` 

- `git diff` 

## 3. initializing a git project
if any `git` command that we run  gives the following output:
> fatal: not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git

it means **we are not inside a git project**. in such case we can:

1.  make sure that we are inside the right folder and navigate to it if needed.
2. initialize git

To initialize git run

```
git init
``` 

This command creates an empty Git repository.
from now on we can make changes to our files and permanently save those changes.

## 4. save changes 

1. `git add .` or `git add -A`
2. `git commit -m "reference to the changes"`
3. `git push`

Commit message:

explained the git add command

README.md, after:

# Git Commands Cheatsheet

## 1. Navigate to your Git project folder

use `cd` to move between folders, for example 

```
cd workspce
cd bdl02 haidar_git_cheatsheet
```

## 2. check the status of the project

I can use these commands **anytime** to inspect my project.

- `git status` to see changes added to the file, and if some files are ready to be committed. 
It gives me an overview of the project at that specific moment of time.

- `git log` 

- `git diff` 

## 3. initializing a git project
if any `git` command that we run  gives the following output:
> fatal: not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git

it means **we are not inside a git project**. in such case we can:

1.  make sure that we are inside the right folder and navigate to it if needed.
2. initialize git

To initialize git run

```
git init
``` 

This command creates an empty Git repository.
from now on we can make changes to our files and permanently save those changes.

## 4. save changes to files

1. `git add .` or `git add -A`

`git add` tells Git that you want to include the latest changes in the next commit. However, changes are not actually recorded until you run `git commit`.

2. `git commit -m "reference to the changes"`

3. `git push` this command sends the committed changes to the server. It is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository.
